# PhDPaper02
Thesis, chapter 03: "Biodiversity conservation as an inducer of terrestrial water storage in South America"

Abstract
The balance of water cycle is closely related to stable and vegetated environments. Therefore, the advance of deforestation and degradation of natural environments in tropical regions compromises the water cycle at regional and continental scales. In addition, the increased exploitation of natural resources to meet the consumption needs of the population also exert strong pressure to increase the biodiversity crisis and climate change. However, despite the numerous advances for the protection and conservation of ecological systems, the results of conservation and sustainability actions developed by various economic sectors are still timid and with few results that collaborate to provide more ecosystem services. In this way, and considering that all areas covered by native vegetation are important for the provision of terrestrial water, we started the development of a metric to quantify the size of a natural area to supply the water demand of enterprises and other organizations. To this end, we used GRACE, CHIRPS, ERA5 satellites data and land use and land cover analyzes from the MapBiomas project. Thus, we investigated the effects of native vegetation cover on terrestrial water storage for the tropical and subtropical region of South America, evaluating about 75% of the South American continent. We investigated long-term trends for terrestrial water storage (TWS) and precipitation, compared to the native vegetation cover of South America. Our results demonstrate that extensive and connected surfaces of native vegetation allow greater water stability in short and long-term rainfall cycles. In addition, we found and quantified that the greater the surface of native vegetation in large regions, the greater the terrestrial water storage and the greater the stability in trends, regardless of the evaluated biome. Different uses and changes in land cover are primarily responsible for changing linear trends in terrestrial water storage. Finally, we estimated the water use by some companies and inferred the size of natural areas needed to meet the water demand, as well as how much the areas already created and maintained by these projects collaborate for the terrestrial storage of water. We found that with the areas created by the projects, only between 18% and 27% of the water resources consumed are being provided for by the natural areas of these projects. We therefore indicate the possibility of creating business consortia so that, together, they can expand conservation actions and create more conservation areas to increase the availability of water and other ecosystem services.
Keywords: ecosystem services; sustainability; biodiversity conservation; LIFE certification; environmental impacts;


